# Important concepts are presented in the form of glossary that has been covered in this course.

## @mention
To notify a person on GitHub by using @ before their username. Users in an organization on GitHub can also be a part of a team that can be mentioned.

## assignee
The user that is assigned to an issue.

## authentication code
A code you'll supply, in addition to your GitHub password, when signing in with 2FA via the browser. This code is either generated by an application or delivered to your phone via text message. Also called a "2FA authentication code."

## base branch
The branch into which changes are combined when you merge a pull request. When you create a pull request, you can change the base branch from the repository's default branch to another branch if required.

## basic authentication
A method of authentication where the credentials are sent as unencrypted text.

## bio
The user-generated description found on a profile: Adding a bio to your profile

## billing plan
Payment plans for users and organizations that include set features for each type of plan.

## branch
A branch is a parallel version of a repository. It is contained within the repository, but does not affect the primary or main branch allowing you to work freely without disrupting the "live" version. When you've made the changes you want to make, you can merge your branch back into the main branch to publish your changes.

## code owner
A person who is designated as an owner of a portion of a repository's code. The code owner is automatically requested for review when someone opens a pull request (not in draft mode) that makes changes to code the code owner owns.

## collaborator
A collaborator is a person with read and write access to a repository who has been invited to contribute by the repository owner.

## commit
A commit, or "revision", is an individual change to a file (or set of files). When you make a commit to save your work, Git creates a unique ID (a.k.a. the "SHA" or "hash") that allows you to keep record of the specific changes committed along with who made them and when. Commits usually contain a commit message which is a brief description of what changes were made.

## commit author
The user who makes the commit.

## commit message
Short, descriptive text that accompanies a commit and communicates the change the commit is introducing.

## compare branch
The branch you use to create a pull request. This branch is compared to the base branch you choose for the pull request, and the changes are identified. When the pull request is merged, the base branch is updated with the changes from the compare branch. Also known as the "head branch" of the pull request.

## contributions
Specific activities on GitHub that will: - Add a square to a user's contribution graph: "What counts as a contribution" - Add activities to a user's timeline on their profile: "Contribution activity"

## contributor
A contributor is someone who does not have collaborator access to a repository but has contributed to a project and had a pull request they opened merged into the repository.

Your personal dashboard is the main hub of your activity on GitHub. From your personal dashboard, you can keep track of issues and pull requests you're following or working on, navigate to your top repositories and team pages, and learn about recent activity in repositories you're watching or participating in. You can also discover new repositories, which are recommended based on users you're following and repositories you have starred. To only view activity for a specific organization, visit your organization's dashboard. For more information, see "About your personal dashboard" or "About your organization dashboard."

## default branch
The base branch for new pull requests and code commits in a repository. Each repository has at least one branch, which Git creates when you initialize the repository. The first branch is usually called main, and is often the default branch.

## diff
A diff is the difference in changes between two commits, or saved changes. The diff will visually describe what was added or removed from a file since its last commit.

## email notifications
Notifications sent to a user's email address.

## enterprise account
Enterprise accounts allow you to centrally manage policy and billing for multiple organizations. Enterprise accounts are available with GitHub Enterprise Cloud and GitHub Enterprise Server. For more information, see "About enterprise accounts" in the GitHub Enterprise Cloud documentation.

## following (users)
To get notifications about another user's contributions and activity.

## fork
A fork is a personal copy of another user's repository that lives on your account. Forks allow you to freely make changes to a project without affecting the original upstream repository. You can also open a pull request in the upstream repository and keep your fork synced with the latest changes since both repositories are still connected.

## Free plan
A user account billing plan that is free. Users can collaborate on unlimited public repositories with unlimited collaborators.

## gist
A gist is a shareable file that you can edit, clone, and fork on GitHub. You can make a gist public or secret, although secret gists will be available to anyone with the URL.

## Git
Git is an open source program for tracking changes in text files. It was written by the author of the Linux operating system, and is the core technology that GitHub, the social and user interface, is built on top of.

## GitHub App
GitHub Apps provide a service to an entire organization and use their own identity when performing their function. They can be installed directly on organizations and user accounts and granted access to specific repositories. They come with granular permissions and built-in webhooks.

## GitHub Flavored Markdown
GitHub-specific Markdown used to format prose and code across GitHub. See GitHub Flavored Markdown Spec or Getting started with writing and formatting on GitHub.

## GitHub Jobs
A GitHub site where employers can post jobs that GitHub users may be interested in.

## GitHub Marketplace
A subsite for GitHub users and organizations to purchase and install applications that extend and complement their workflow.

## GitHub Pages
Also referred to as Pages. A static site hosting service designed to host your personal, organization, or project pages directly from a GitHub repository.

## GitHub Wiki
A section for hosting wiki style documentation on a GitHub repository.

## head branch
The branch whose changes are combined into the base branch when you merge a pull request. Also known as the "compare branch."

## integration
A third-party application that integrates with GitHub. These can be GitHub Apps, OAuth Apps, or webhooks.

## issue
Issues are suggested improvements, tasks or questions related to the repository. Issues can be created by anyone (for public repositories), and are moderated by repository collaborators. Each issue contains its own discussion thread. You can also categorize an issue with labels and assign it to someone.

## Jekyll
A static site generator for personal, project, or organization sites.

## Jekyll Theme Chooser
An automated way to select a visual theme for your Jekyll site without editing or copying CSS files.

## keyword
A specific word that closes an issue when used within a pull request.

## Markdown
Markdown is an incredibly simple semantic file format, not too dissimilar from .doc, .rtf and .txt. Markdown makes it easy for even those without a web-publishing background to write prose (including with links, lists, bullets, etc.) and have it displayed like a website. GitHub supports Markdown and uses a particular form of Markdown called GitHub Flavored Markdown. See GitHub Flavored Markdown Spec or Getting started with writing and formatting on GitHub.

## main
The default development branch. Whenever you create a Git repository, a branch named main is created, and becomes the active branch. In most cases, this contains the local development, though that is purely by convention and is not required.

## master
The default branch in many Git repositories. By default, when you create a new Git repository on the command line, a branch called master is created. Many tools now use an alternative name for the default branch. For example, when you create a new repository on GitHub, the default branch is called main.

## mention
A notification sent to a user by prefacing their username with the @ symbol. Users in an organization on GitHub can also be a part of a team that can be mentioned.

## merge
Merging takes the changes from one branch (in the same repository or from a fork), and applies them into another. This often happens as a "pull request" (which can be thought of as a request to merge), or via the command line. A merge can be done through a pull request via the GitHub.com web interface if there are no conflicting changes, or can always be done via the command line.

## notification
Updates, delivered by either the web or email depending on your settings, that give you information about the activities you're interested in.

## OAuth App
A third-party application that uses access tokens rather than passwords to access information for users.

## open source
Open source software is software that can be freely used, modified, and shared (in both modified and unmodified form) by anyone. Today the concept of "open source" is often extended beyond software, to represent a philosophy of collaboration in which working materials are made available online for anyone to fork, modify, discuss, and contribute to.

## organization
Organizations are a group of two or more users that typically mirror real-world organizations. They are administered by users and can contain both repositories and teams.

## personal account
A GitHub account that belongs to an individual user.

## primary email address
The main email address where GitHub sends receipts, credit card or PayPal charges, and other billing-related communication.

## pinned repository
A repository that a user has decided to display prominently on their profile.

## profile
The page that shows information about a user's activity on GitHub.

## profile photo
A custom image users upload to GitHub to identify their activity, usually along with their username. This is also referred to as an avatar.

## pull request
Pull requests are proposed changes to a repository submitted by a user and accepted or rejected by a repository's collaborators. Like issues, pull requests each have their own discussion forum.

## pull request review
Comments from collaborators on a pull request that approve the changes or request further changes before the pull request is merged.

## README
A text file containing information about the files in a repository that is typically the first file a visitor to your repository will see. A README file, along with a repository license, contribution guidelines, and a code of conduct, helps you share expectations and manage contributions to your project.

## repository
A repository is the most basic element of GitHub. They're easiest to imagine as a project's folder. A repository contains all of the project files (including documentation), and stores each file's revision history. Repositories can have multiple collaborators and can be either public or private.

## review
Reviews allow others with access to your repository to comment on the changes proposed in pull requests, approve the changes, or request further changes before the pull request is merged.

## root directory
The first directory in a hierarchy.

## saved reply
A comment you can save and add to your GitHub user account so that you can use it across GitHub in issues and pull requests.

## security log
A log that lists the last 50 actions or those performed within the last 90 days.

## status
A visual representation within a pull request that your commits meet the conditions set for the repository you're contributing to.

## star
A bookmark or display of appreciation for a repository. Stars are a manual way to rank the popularity of projects.

## subscription
A user or organization's GitHub plan.

## team
A group of organization members that reflect your company or group's structure with cascading access permissions and mentions.

## timeline
A series of events in a pull request or on a user profile.

## transfer
To transfer a repository means to change the owner of a repository. The new owner will be able to immediately administer the repository's contents, issues, pull requests, releases, and settings.

## user
Users are people with personal GitHub accounts. Each user has a personal profile, and can own multiple repositories, public or private. They can create or be invited to join organizations or collaborate on another user's repository.

## username
A user's handle on GitHub.

## watch
You can watch a repository or issue to receive notifications when updates are made to an issue or pull request.

## watching notifications
A notification about activity in a repository a user has subscribed to.

## web notifications
Notifications displayed in the web interface on GitHub: https://github.com/notifications

````
#### Reference :- https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-glossary
````
